=head1 NAME

OpenCA::PKCS7 - Perl extension for basic handling PKCS#7 Signatures.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

use OpenCA::PKCS7;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module contains all functions needed for handling PKCS#7
signatures. It requires some parameters to be passed such as
a reference to a OpenCA::OpenSSL instance. 
 
This module provides an interface to PKCS#7 structures, no specific
crypto functions are performed (see the OpenCA::OpenSSL module
for this).

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 sub new () - Create a new instance of the Class.

	This function creates an instance of the module. If you
	provide a certificate it will be parsed and stored in
	local variable(s) for later usage. The function will return
	a blessed reference.

	Accepted parameters are:

		SHELL       - Reference to an initialized
			      OpenCA::OpenSSL instance;
		INFILE      - Signature File;
		SIGNATURE   - Signature Data;
		DATAFILE    - Data File(*);
		CA_CERT     - CA Certificate File to check chain
                              Depth ( >0 )(*);
		CA_DIR	    - CA Certificates directory to check
			      chain Depth ( >0 );

	(*) - Optional parameter.

	EXAMPLE:

	      $sig = new OpenCA::PKCS#7(  SHELL=>$crypto,
					  INFILE=>"TEXT.sig",
					  DATA=>"TEXT",
					  CACERT=>"/OpenCA/cacert.pem");

=head2 sub errno () - Get last command errno value.

        This functions returns last operation's errno value. Non
        zero value means there has been an error.

        EXAMPLE:

                print $sig->errno;

=head2 sub errval () - Get last command errval value.

        This functions returns last operation's errval value. This
        value usually has a brief error description.

        EXAMPLE:

                print $sig->errval;

=head2 sub status () - Get signature status.

        This functions returns signature validity status. Non
	zero values usually means an error occurred.

        EXAMPLE:

                print "ERROR" if ( $sig->status );

=head2 sub getSigner () - Get basic Signer Infos.

=head2 sub verifyChain () - Get and Verify basic signer Infos (CAcert needed).

=head1 AUTHOR

Massimiliano Pala <madwolf@openca.org>

=head1 SEE ALSO

OpenCA::OpenSSL, OpenCA::CRL, OpenCA::REQ, OpenCA::X509

=cut
