=head1 NAME

OpenCA::Tools - Misc Utilities PERL Extention.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use OpenCA::Tools;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides some tools to easy some standard actions. Current
functions description follows:

	new		- Returns a reference to the object.
	getDate		- Returns a Printable date string.
	getFile		- Load data from a file passed as argument.
	saveFile	- Save DATA to FILENAME.
	copyFiles	- Copy file(s).
	moveFiles	- Move file(s).
	deleteFiles	- Delete file(s).
	cmpDate		- Compare two Printable date sting.
	isInsidePeriod	- Check wether give date is within given
			  period.
	parseDN         - Parse a given DN returning an HASH value.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 sub new () - Build new instance of the class.

	This function returns a new instance of the class. No parameters
	needed.

	EXAMPLE:
	
		my $tools = new OpenCA::Tools();

=head2 sub getDate () - Get a Printable date string.

	Returns a string representing current time (GMT or Local).
	Accepted parameters are:

		FORMAT  - Use it to get local or GMT time.
			  Defaults to GMT.

	EXAMPLE:

		print $tools->getDate();

=head2 sub copyFiles () - Copy file(s).

	Use this function to copy file(s). Source path can contain
	wildcards (i.e. '*') that will be expanded when copying.
	Accepted parameters are:

		SRC  - Source full path.
		DEST - Destination path.

	EXAMPLE:

		$tools->copyFiles( SRC=>"test.pl", DEST=>"/tmp" );

=head2 sub moveFiles () - Move file(s).

	Use this function to move file(s). Source path can contain
	wildcards (i.e. '*') that will be expanded when copying.
	Accepted parameters are:

		SRC  - Source full path.
		DEST - Destination path.

	EXAMPLE:

		$tools->moveFiles( SRC=>"test.pl", DEST=>"/tmp" );

=head2 sub deleteFiles () - Delete file(s).

	Use this function to delete file(s) once provided target
	directory and filter.
	Accepted parameters are:

		DIR    - Directory containing file(s) to delete.
		FILTER - File filtering(*).

	(*) - Optional parameters;

	EXAMPLE:

		$tools->deleteFiles( DIR=>"/tmp", FILTER=>"prova.p*" );

=head2 sub cmpDate () - Compare two date strings.

	Use this function to get informations on relationship
	between the two provided date strings. Returns integer
	values like strcmp() do in C, so if DATE_1 'is later'
	than DATE_2 it returns a positive value. A negative value
	is returned in the countrart case while 0 is returned if
	the two dates are equal. Accepted parameters:

		DATE_1  - First date string.
		DATE_2  - Second date string.

	EXAMPLE:

		$tools->cmpDate( DATA_1=>"$date1", DATA_2=>"$date2" );

=head2 sub isInsidePerios - Check if date is inside a given period.

	This functions returns a true (1) value if the provided
	date is within a given period. Accepted parameters are:

		DATE     - Date string to check.
		START	 - Date string indicating period's starting(*).
		END      - Date string indicating period's ending(*).

	(*) - Optional parameters;

		if( not $tools->isInsidePeriod( DATE=>$d1, START=>$d2,
				END=>$d3 ) ) {
			print "Non in period... \n";
		}

=head2 sub parseDN () - Parse a given DN.

	This function parses a given DN string and returns an HASH
	value. Returned structure is as following:

		KEY => VALUE,

	Only the OU key is instead a list:

		OU => [ @list ]

	EXAMPLE:

		$parsed = $tools->parseDN( $dn );
		print $parsed->{CN};

		foreach $tmp ( @{ $parsed->{OU} } ) {
			print "OU=$tmp\n";
		}

=head1 AUTHOR

Massimiliano Pala <madwolf@openca.org>

=head1 SEE ALSO

OpenCA::Configuration, OpenCA::TRIStateCGI, OpenCA::X509, OpenCA::CRL, OpenCA::REQ, OpenCA::OpenSSL, perl(1).

=cut
